Hello there! Thank you for showing your interest by clicking on this page. I hope you will get to know what this project is all about through this unsolicited monolgue. When I was thinking 'how do I describe what this project is about?' then it occured to me that there are two ways of doing this. One, I hit you with a cold and distant desciption with an 'About' page where everything is in third person. Two, I just walk you through my thoughts, revealing one thought after another only to reach an inconclusive end. Given the choice, the first option sounds very professional and that is what most people would suggest. But as you can expect I chose not to. Not because I think its cool being unconventional but because I am not a professional, I am, after all, just an amateur. 

Now that we have established the plot you might be interested in knowing -

> **What this project is about?**

This is perhaps not the way how I thought the project would evolve. Initially, I thought of creating a wiki that would include exhaustive resources which one would require to get a hang of both the usual and unusual things that surronds and impact us. With that in my mind I imagined ways of organizing these pages. Handicapped with my thoughts I turned to pen and paper to visualise the system. Yes, one can create multiple directories to store and organize these files but then to navigate through that system to find a particular page is quite a drag. So now the page is still about trying to get a hang about the things that surround and impact us, it is just that the way is more fluid. I mean aren't we done with structures and forced categorization of curriculum already? Although you will find headings, there is no strict categorization as such because one page belonging to one heading would eventually be linked with a page in another heading. 

Trying to understand how you will navigate 
